User avatar
User avatar
vaibhavmeh64500
19 sec. ago
is it possible to connect Realsense D405 camera on ubuntu raspberry pi
is it possible to connect Realsense D405 camera on ubuntu raspberry pi
is it possible to connect Realsense D405 camera on ubuntu raspberry pi

Search

Sources
11
Connecting the Intel RealSense D405 to Ubuntu on Raspberry Pi
Summary:
Yes, it is possible to connect and use the Intel RealSense D405 camera with a Raspberry Pi running Ubuntu, but there are important considerations and some technical steps required.

Key Points:

Hardware Compatibility:
The RealSense D405, like other 400 Series RealSense cameras, requires a USB 3.0 connection for full functionality. Raspberry Pi 4 and newer models (including Compute Modules and Pi 5) provide USB 3.0 ports, making them suitable for use with RealSense cameras.

Operating System:
Ubuntu (such as Ubuntu MATE or standard Ubuntu Server/Desktop) can be installed on Raspberry Pi hardware. Both Ubuntu and Raspbian (Raspberry Pi OS) have been used successfully with RealSense cameras, though Ubuntu may be preferred for compatibility with the latest SDK versions.

SDK Installation:
The official Intel RealSense SDK (librealsense) supports Linux and can be compiled for ARM architectures like the Raspberry Pi. The SDK must be built from source on the Pi, following the Linux/ARM build instructions. This process can be resource-intensive and may require increasing swap space during compilation.

D405 Specifics:
The D405 is supported in recent versions of the RealSense SDK. Ensure you use a recent SDK release (preferably v2.50.0 or newer) for best compatibility. Some users have reported success with the D405 on Raspberry Pi 4 and Pi 5 using Ubuntu, ROS2, and the latest SDKs.

Practical Notes:

Use a Raspberry Pi model with USB 3.0 for reliable operation.

Follow the official Intel RealSense Linux installation guide, compiling the SDK from source on your Pi.

If you encounter kernel or dependency issues, consider using the RSUSB backend, which helps bypass some kernel limitations.

For ROS/robotics applications, the D405 has been shown to work with ROS2 on Raspberry Pi 5 running Ubuntu.

Example Workflow
Install Ubuntu on Raspberry Pi (e.g., Ubuntu 20.04 or newer).

Update system packages and install build dependencies.

Clone the librealsense repository and follow the ARM Linux build instructions.

Connect the D405 to a USB 3.0 port on the Pi.

Run the RealSense viewer or your application to verify the camera is detected and streaming data.

Limitations and Troubleshooting
Performance may be limited compared to x86 PCs due to the Pi’s processing power.

Compilation may require increased swap space to avoid memory errors.

Some users have experienced issues with newer Ubuntu or kernel versions; using the RSUSB backend or sticking to a supported Ubuntu LTS release can help.

Ensure your power supply can handle the Pi and the camera simultaneously.

Conclusion
You can connect and use the Intel RealSense D405 camera on a Raspberry Pi running Ubuntu, provided you use a model with USB 3.0 and carefully follow the SDK build instructions. This setup is being used in robotics and AI projects, including with ROS2 on the latest Pi models.

ok tell me all of the commands in the terminal which I need to use to be a blke to connect it please
ok tell me all of the commands in the terminal which I need to use to be a blke to connect it please

Search

Sources
8
Step-by-Step Terminal Commands to Connect Intel RealSense D405 on Ubuntu Raspberry Pi
Below are the essential terminal commands for installing and connecting the Intel RealSense D405 camera on a Raspberry Pi running Ubuntu. These steps use the recommended RSUSB backend method for best compatibility on ARM devices like Raspberry Pi.

Update and Install Dependencies

bash
sudo apt update
sudo apt upgrade -y
sudo apt install git cmake g++ libssl-dev libusb-1.0-0-dev pkg-config libgtk-3-dev -y
(Optional but recommended) Increase Swap Space for Compilation

bash
sudo fallocate -l 4G /swapfile
sudo chmod 600 /swapfile
sudo mkswap /swapfile
sudo swapon /swapfile
echo '/swapfile none swap sw 0 0' | sudo tee -a /etc/fstab
Clone the librealsense Repository

bash
git clone https://github.com/IntelRealSense/librealsense.git
cd librealsense
Set Up Device Permissions

bash
./scripts/setup_udev_rules.sh
Build the Library with RSUSB Backend

bash
mkdir build
cd build
cmake .. -DFORCE_RSUSB_BACKEND=ON
make -j4
sudo make install
(Optional) Install Python Wrapper

If you want Python support, add this flag to the cmake command above:

bash
cmake .. -DFORCE_RSUSB_BACKEND=ON -DBUILD_PYTHON_BINDINGS=ON
Test the Camera

Plug in your RealSense D405 to a USB 3.0 port, then run:

bash
realsense-viewer
Troubleshooting Tips

If you encounter memory errors during compilation, ensure swap is enabled.

Use make -j2 instead of -j4 if you still experience build failures due to limited RAM.

For Ubuntu 22.04 or newer, refer to the most recent guides for any additional dependencies.

Summary Table

Step	Command(s)
Update & dependencies	sudo apt update && sudo apt install ...
Increase swap	sudo fallocate ...
Clone SDK	git clone ... && cd librealsense
Set permissions	./scripts/setup_udev_rules.sh
Build with RSUSB	cmake .. -DFORCE_RSUSB_BACKEND=ON && make -j4
Install	sudo make install
Test camera	realsense-viewer
Follow these commands in order to successfully connect and use your RealSense D405 camera on Ubuntu running on Raspberry Pi.

Related
What are the specific commands to install librealsense on Ubuntu for Raspberry Pi
How do I set up the permissions for the RealSense camera on Raspberry Pi
What are the steps to build librealsense from source code using CMake
How can I fix errors encountered during the installation of RealSense on Ubuntu
What are the dependencies required for installing RealSense on Raspberry Pi


is it possible to connect Realsense D405 camera on ubuntu raspberry pi?
